# Stochastic Differential Equations Cheatsheet

All important topics from SDEs (at least in my opinion)

This is a topic I've "approached from the side" by accident often when studying Measure Theory, Real Analysis, and Probability. SDEs have a ton of applications and they're super interesting so I wanted to work on a public cheatsheet!

All my side comments are italicized. 

## Important Problem Prototypes 

### Stochastic DEs

$\frac{dN}{dt} = \alpha(t)N(t)$ with $N(0) = N_0$

where $N_0$ is a constant.

Issue: $\alpha(t) = r(t) + \omega$
$\omega$ is undetermined noise, $r(t)$ nonrandom. 

How do we solve this DE?

## Sigma algebra definition

$\Omega$ is some set.

*say... $\Omega = \{1,2,3,4,5,6\}$, the faces of a die*

$\mathcal{F}$ is a **family** of subsets of $\Omega$ ([See family vs. collection](https://www.samuel-drapeau.info/math/2015/10/04/family-vs-collection/#:~:text=Typical%20examples%20of%20families%20are,ten%20times%20the%20number%201.))

Then a $\sigma$-algebra is $\mathcal{F}$, a family of subsets of $\Omega$, such that these conditions hold:

**A**. $\emptyset \in \mathcal{F}$

**B**. The complement of any subset belonging to $\mathcal{F} \in \mathcal{F}$. So,  

$$F \in \mathcal{F} \implies F^C \in \mathcal{F}$$ where $$F^c := \Omega / F$$

**C**. $$A_1, A_2, \dots \in \mathcal{F} \implies A:= \bigcup_{i=1}^{\infty} A_i \in \mathcal{F}$$ (the union of all subsets in $\mathcal{F}$ is in $\mathcal{F}$)

*A sigma algebra of the subsets of any set seems to me to be an intuitive way of making sure your subsets, their complements, and their "closures" are all accounted for*

*If this doesn't make sense, I reccomend reading Section 2.4 (on discrete events) of Mathematical Statistics by Wackerly, Mendehall, and Scheaffer*

## Measurable Space 

The pair $(\Omega, \mathcal{F})$ is a measurable space 

*rememeber that* $\mathcal{F}$ *is a* $\sigma$*-algebra on the subsets of* $\Omega$

It can have a probability measure. 

## Probability Measure on Measurable Space 

A probability measure on a measurable space is a **function** $P:\mathcal{F} \to [0,1]$) such that these conditions hold:

**A.** $P(\emptyset) = 0$, and $P(\mathcal{F}) = 1$

**B.** if $A_1, A_2, \dots \in \mathcal{F}$, and they are all disjoint, aka : $$A_i \cap A_j = \emptyset \text{ in } \{A_i\}_{i=1}^{\infty}$$

then 

$$
P(\bigcup_{i = 1}^{\infty}A_i) = \sum_{i=1}^{\infty}{P(A_i)}
$$


## Probability Space 

The 3-tuple $(\Omega, \mathcal{F}, P)$, obeying definitions above, is a probablity space. 

## Complete Probability Space and "P outer measure zero" 

Recall that $P:\mathcal{F} \to [0,1]$ is a probablity measure on $(\Omega,\mathcal{F})$ and that $F \in \mathcal{F}$. 

Say $G \subset F$. 

Then $(\Omega, \mathcal{F}, P)$ is a **complete** probability space if $\mathcal{F}$ contains all subsets $G$ with "P-outer measure zero", or $P^*(G)$, where:

$$
P^*(G) := \text{inf}\{P(F); f \in \mathcal{F}, G \subset F\} = 0
$$

*to me, this definition assures that our probability space has a general concept of a floor, or lower bound, at zero*

*also, remember from before that while $P(\emptyset) = 0$ is a requirement for a probability measure, it is not the only set that can be equal to zero under the probabiltiy measure, P. Adding all those other sets is what gives us a complete probability space*

## F-Mesurable sets ... events!

## Sigma algebra generated by $U$

## H_x measurable algebra conditions (Lemma)

